1. INTRODUCTION

  The FreeRADIUS Server Project is a high performance and highly
configurable GPL'd free RADIUS server. The server is similar in some
respects to Livingston's 2.0 server.  While FreeRADIUS started as a
variant of the Cistron RADIUS server, they don't share a lot in common
any more.  It now has many more features than Cistron or Livingston,
and is much more configurable.

  FreeRADIUS is an Internet authentication daemon, which implements
the RADIUS protocol, as defined in RFC 2865 (and others).  It allows
Network Access Servers (NAS boxes) to perform authentication for
dial-up users.  There are also RADIUS clients available for Web
servers, firewalls, Unix logins, and more.  Using RADIUS allows
authentication and authorization for a network to be centralized, and
minimizes the amount of re-configuration which has to be done when
adding or deleting new users.

  Please see the main web page (http://www.freeradius.org) for more
up-to-date information.

2. INSTALLATION

  To install the server, please see the INSTALL file in this
directory.

3. DEBUGGING THE SERVER

  Run the server in debugging mode, (radiusd -X) and READ the output.
We really can't emphasize this enough.

  Read the FAQ.  Many questions are answered there.

  Read the configuration files.  Many parts of the server have NO
documentation, other than comments in the configuration file.

  Search the mailing lists.  There is a Google link on the bottom of
  the page:

	http://www.freeradius.org/list/users.html

  Type some key words into the search box, and you should find
discussions about common problems and solution.


4. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

  See 'doc/README' for more information about FreeRADIUS.

  For more general RADIUS information, the Livington internet site had
a lot of information on radius online.  Unfortunately Livingston, and
the site, don't exist anymore but there's a copy of the site still at:

	http://portmasters.com/www.livingston.com/

  Especially worth a read is the "RADIUS for Unix administrators guide"

HTML:  http://portmasters.com/tech/docs/radius/1185title.html
PDF:   http://portmasters.com/tech/docs/pdf/radius.pdf
